## Enslaved?

```tsql
"And as for your male and female slaves 
whom you may have — from the nations that are around you, 
from them you may buy male and female slaves."
    - Leviticus 25:44
```

An inquisitive young man once asked me why God allowed slavery in this passage. Many different things occur to me about the passage and his question regarding it. Firstly, I was frustrated with the question. The question itself, seen in a defensive light, seems designed to impune the reputation and judgement of God Almighty; a mission foolish at best and blasphemous at worst. 

But does God need defending? Yes, someone will quote me 1 Peter 3:15, "always be ready to give a defense to everyone who asks you..." (despite this verse referring to a defense of your hope, not of God Himself). All things considered, though, I am of the opinion that God can defend Himself pretty well.

Doesn't stop us from getting that fleshy knot in our stomach that typically precedes a harsh or dismissive response. We take offense - often not because God is wronged, but because we feel we are being made foolish by connection. We defend "God" because we feel our reputation and honor is bound up in it as well.

It is not a wrong question to ask of God.

Nevertheless, it is not necessarily a question God is inclined to answer you. At the end of the book of Job, God clearly says Job is correct in things he said about God, yet He still never replied to Job's accusations. And frankly, it's a bit of a paradox - God gives grace to believe the Truth and accept Him, and <b>then</b> the Holy Spirit to open our understanding of Scripture, not before. So trying to unpack and enlighten a person with the Bible before they have been given the grace to believe could be an impossible task.

After all of the explanation of my reaction to being asked, I will say that the thing I am reminded of most when this passage comes up - and others like it from the Levitical law (given to a tribe of nomads in a harsh desert clime, forced to flee into a world that wanted to exterminate them) - is a thing Jesus told the Pharisees.

In Matthew 19:8, Jesus said “Moses, because of the hardness of your hearts, permitted you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so." This was in response to the Pharisees questioning Jesus because he was making them feel guilty for sanctioning divorces. Moses wrote the judgements he handed down given his position as "Supreme Court" justice of the day... but from the beginning it was not so.

Consider this before the Lord and ask Him. Don't ask me.

## Prayer
Thank You Lord for Your Word. That I do not always understand, but that I wait on expectantly and patiently, knowing that Jesus said the greatest commandment is to love You and then others. Please continue to refine and teach me, so I can be more and love more like You.

Amen.
